JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening. I'm
Judy Woodruff.
On the "NewsHour" tonight:
THOMAS PEREZ, U.S. Secretary of
Labor: If
you work extra, you should be
paid extra,
and middle-class jobs should pay
a middle-class
wage.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We talk with the
secretary
of labor, Tom Perez, about the
Obama administration's
ambitious overtime pay ruling,
which aims
to help millions of workers earn
more money.
Then: Bernie Sanders takes
Oregon, while Hillary
Clinton claims victory in
Kentucky with less
than a 1 percent winning margin.
Also ahead: an update on the
chaos in Libya,
as the U.S. weighs arming the
fledgling government.
And 36 years after Washington's
Mount St.
Helens erupted and turned a
forest into rubble,
scientists are watching how an
ecosystem can
grow from nothing.
JOHN BISHOP, Washington State
University-Vancouver:
Anything biological that was
remaining after
the landslide would've been
completely vaporized.
It was just a barren landscape,
gray and pumice-colored.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All that and more
on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: The federal
regulations governing
overtime pay are changing for
the first time
since 2004. The U.S. Labor
Department says
its final rule, issued today,
will be a boon
to middle- and lower-income
workers. Business
groups say, in fact, it's going
to hurt those
very employees.
The new rule means another 4.2
million workers
will be eligible for overtime
pay. Vice President
Joe Biden hailed the move at an
event today
in Columbus, Ohio.
JOSEPH BIDEN, Vice President of
the United
States: We have got to right
this ship, and
this is a very important piece
of doing it,
because millions of people are
going to start
to get paid, not more than they
deserve, what
they deserve. And mark my words.
The benefit
is going to be beyond the
compensation.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Under the change,
the salary
threshold to qualify for
time-and-a-half pay
goes from $23,660 a year to more
than $47,000.
The Obama administration says it
will boost
wages by $12 billion over the
next decade.
Thanks mainly to inflation, the
number of
full-time workers who currently
qualify for
overtime has plunged sharply,
from 62 percent
in 1975 to just 7 percent today.
The restaurant
and retail industries will see
the greatest
effects from the new regulation,
and they're
strongly opposed.
David French is with the
National Retail Federation.
DAVID FRENCH, National Retail
Federation:
By executive fiat, the
administration is effectively
demoting millions of workers
from salaried
exempt employment to hourly and
likely hourly
non-exempt employment. In the
real world,
these changes are not going to
benefit the
workers they are promising
overtime to. This
is really a bait and switch.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Some university
officials have
also warned they may have to
raise tuition
or scale back services to abide
by the new
guidelines.
And in a statement today,
Republican House
Speaker Paul Ryan vowed to fight
the overtime
rule. He said -- quote -- "This
regulation
hurts the very people it alleges
to help.
Many small businesses and
nonprofits will
be unable to afford skilled
workers and be
forced to eliminate salaried
positions."
The rule takes effect December
1. After that,
the salary threshold will be
automatically
updated every three years.
We will have an interview with
the secretary
of labor right after the news
summary.
In the presidential campaign,
Republican Donald
Trump released a list of
potential nominees
for the U.S. Supreme Court if
he's elected
president. He named 11 federal
and state judges,
eight men and three women, all
of them white.
In a statement, Trump said the
list is -- quote
-- "based on constitutional
principles with
input from highly respected
conservatives
and Republican Party
leadership."
The country's top intelligence
official warns
that foreign hackers are spying
on presidential
candidates. James Clapper, the
national intelligence
director, says there've been
signs of cyber-attacks
on the campaigns, as there were
in 2008 and
2012. His office said the
motives range from
philosophical differences to
espionage.
There is word from Nigeria that
the first
of the long-missing Chibok girls
has been
found. The military says she was
rescued yesterday
in a remote forest with a baby.
More than
200 girls were abducted by Boko
Haram militants
just over two years ago. None
has been seen
since, until now. The rescued
girl says that
a few have died, but most are
still captive.
To Asia now and in Sri Lanka.
Rescuers used
sticks and even bare hands today
to dig for
victims and survivors after
mountains of mud
buried their homes. More than
220 families
were missing in a hard-hit
district located
in the central part of the
island nation.
Olivia Kinsley of Independent
Television News
reports.
OLIVIA KINSLEY: Another life
claimed by these
massive mudslides caused by
torrential rain
that has been hammering Sri
Lanka for days.
Hundreds of thousands of people
have had to
abandon their homes. Entire
villages have
been buried. Bodies are being
pulled from
the mud. Those still alive, and
still stranded,
are being rescued one by one.
MAJ. GEN. SUDANTHA RANASINGHE,
Sri Lanka:
We are -- developed, established
five relief
centers, and in the five relief
centers, now
there are over 1,300 people,
displaced people
who are being sheltered. And the
government
is looking after them.
OLIVIA KINSLEY: With more rain
on the way,
they're putting out sandbags in
the towns,
but for low-lying villages, the
water and
the devastation has been
unstoppable. With
rescuers struggling to reach
those in some
of the worst affected areas, the
death toll
will surely continue to rise.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Search parties
found 17 bodies
before they suspended operations
for the night.
China today played down its
ongoing military
exercises along its coast facing
Taiwan. The
defense ministry said the drills
are not aimed
at any specific target. They
began just days
before Taiwan inaugurates a new
president,
who leans toward independence
from China.
Beijing regards Taiwan as a
renegade province,
and has never ruled out using
force to bring
it back into the fold.
The Chinese also condemned a
U.S. move to
slap duties of more than 500
percent on imported
flat steel. It is used in car
bodies and appliances,
and China has a glut of it. The
U.S. says
Beijing is dumping the steel and
hurting American
firms. And, on Wall Street, the
Dow Jones
industrial average lost three
points to close
at 17526. The Nasdaq rose 23,
and the S&P
500 added a fraction.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
millions
more Americans eligible for
overtime under
new labor standards; documented
atrocities
in an ISIS stronghold in Libya;
billions of
dollars later, why VA wait times
are actually
getting worse; and much more.
dollars later, why VA wait times
are actually
getting worse; and much more.
Let's return now to one of the
biggest moves
made by the Obama administration
to affect
Americans' take-home pay. Those
are new rules
on overtime.
The changes effectively mean
that 12 million
more workers could qualify for
time-and-a-half
after working 40 hours a week.
That includes
four-million-plus whose duties
make them eligible
with a higher salary threshold
and many others
considered previously exempt
from overtime.
William Brangham interviewed the
secretary
of labor from the White House
earlier today.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Welcome,
Secretary Perez.
Why this change? And exactly
what kinds of
workers are you trying to help?
THOMAS PEREZ, U.S. Secretary of
Labor: Sure.
This change is designed to
fortify two basic
pillars of the Fair Labor
Standards Act, which
is really the crown jewel of
worker protection.
Number one is middle-class jobs
should pay
a middle-class wage. And, number
two, when
you work extra, you should be
paid extra.
And the problem we're solving
here, William,
is that over the course of time,
the threshold
that differentiated people who
were exempt
employees, that is, exempt from
overtime eligibility,
vs. people who are overtime
eligible, it hasn't
kept up with the cost of living.
And so it has really, really
diminished its
purchasing power. And then,
secondly, in 2004,
the Bush administration issued a
new rule.
And they, frankly, took
virtually all the
leverage away from workers and
gave it to
businesses. And that's why you
have workers
working 70 hours a week managing
retail stores
and other stores, and making
$25,000, $30,000
a year, which was basically at
minimum wage.
So, we're trying to fix that
problem by doubling
the threshold from $23,000 to
$47,000 and
change.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: A number of
industry groups
have criticized these rules. And
I would like
to address some of their
concerns.
One is the argument that
employees will simply
reclassify some salaried workers
into hourly
workers to avoid paying them the
overtime.
They argue that these rules
could then mean
a demotion for millions of
workers.
THOMAS PEREZ: Well, actually, I
just met with
a group of people, the vice
president and
I, in Ohio, a remarkable
employer that has
600 employees, national
footprint.
And, actually, one of the things
he did was,
he converted their managers to
hourly employees.
And guess what happened? They're
making more
money. And when you talk to
their employees
who are managers, who are making
more money,
they feel pretty good about
themselves.
And so this notion that suddenly
workers are
going to feel diminished
stature, we did a
lot of outreach on this. And,
you know, that
-- that wasn't our experience.
And employers
have a lot of flexibility. If
you are making
$40,000 now, and the new
threshold is $47,476,
you can still call that worker a
salaried
$40,000 employee who's overtime
eligible.
So they are still a salaried
employee. The
business owner that the vice
president and
I met with, they made a
different choice and
it worked for their workers.
Flexibility is
the watchword of the Fair Labor
Standards
Act and this new overtime rule.
So, employers have plenty of
options.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: There is
another concern,
that employers might cut back a
worker's hours
to avoid paying them overtime,
or they might
just lower wages to compensate
if they have
to pay it.
Could these rules end up
triggering a pay
cut?
THOMAS PEREZ: Well, you know, we
-- in 2004,
there was the rule put in place
by the Bush
administration, and employers
were faced with
this. And I hear this criticism
that they're
actually going to reduce their
wages.
Well, then it stands to reason
that that should
have happened in 2004 as well.
But, at least
to the best of my knowledge, it
didn't. And
here's why it didn't then and it
won't now.
These are the most valuable
employees in many
people's work forces. They open
the store.
They close the store. They hire.
They fire.
They go to the bank and deposit
the money.
They are the glue that keeps the
organization
together. Rational employers
don't take the
glue that keeps the organization
together
and then cast them aside. And
that's inconsistent
with a sound business practice.
And so I appreciate the
concerns, but, you
know, the economy is out of
balance because
so many managers have lost their
leverage.
And we're trying to restore that
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: I mean, it's
not just industry
that has raised questions. Some
leaders in
higher education and nonprofits
have also
expressed a fear about what this
could do
to their work force as well.
THOMAS PEREZ: Well, we have done
a lot of
discussion with higher ed. And
what they learned
when we would discuss this issue
with them
is, they have remarkable amounts
of flexibility
that they were unaware of.
We had someone from higher ed
say, oh, my
God, my teachers work 70 hours a
week, and
now have I to pay them overtime.
Well, actually,
that's not true, because the
Fair Labor Standards
Act exempts teachers, it exempts
research
assistants, it exempts wide
categories of
employees.
I heard from a public university
about all
the challenges of compliance,
but they were
unaware of the fact that public
universities
can give comp time, in lieu of
overtime pay,
for these workers. And when they
heard that,
you should have seen them. The
lightbulb be
went off.
And so I think there is a pretty
good road
map for compliance for folks in
higher ed.
And I would note this, William,
which is that,
you know, over 50 percent of the
4.2 million
workers who are going to
directly benefit
from this rule have a college
degree. And
over 80 percent have some
college.
I always thought the mission of
higher ed
was to help prepare workers so
that they can
be productive citizens and punch
their ticket
to the middle class. So, you
know, it's a
little inconsistent to have that
mission and
then say, well, hey, wait a
minute, we shouldn't
be raising wages of our
graduates, especially
when I see the salaries of,
like, the football
coach at a couple of the
universities that
came to talk to us.
When you pay them five, six,
seven million
dollars a year, you ought to be
able to figure
out a way to make sure that the
person who
manages the cafeteria in one of
your halls
can get a middle-class salary.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: All right,
Labor Secretary
Thomas Perez, thanks very much
for joining
us.
THOMAS PEREZ: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now to Libya.
Chaos has gripped the North
African nation
since the fall of Moammar
Gadhafi, with at
least two governments and
multiple factions
simultaneously vying for power.
Now there's
word of wholesale atrocities by
Islamic State
forces in the coastal city of
Sirte.
Fighter jets flying for Libya's
U.N.-backed
government are bombing around
Sirte, and allied
ground forces are pushing back
as well to
stop Islamic State militants
from expanding
beyond their stronghold there;
120 miles of
the Central Libyan coastline in
and around
Sirte has been under the
militant group's
control since early 2015.
Nearly two-thirds of Sirte's
80,000 people
have fled, and been forced to
rely on humanitarian
aid.
MAN (through translator): The
nationalities
of ISIS fighters are all
foreign, Tunisians,
Egyptians, Sudanese. They came
in and created
a state of fear and terror for
the people
and families, so we fled. And
they're all
foreigners. None of them are
Libyans. We fled
with nothing.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now come
disturbing details
of what's happening inside Sirte
in a Human
Rights Watch report based on
interviews with
those who left. It tells of
dozens of beheadings
by sword, floggings and
crucifixions, fathers
forced to marry off their
daughters to ISIS
fighters, and all females over
the age of
10 forced to wear the
conservative black cloak,
the abaya.
On Monday in Vienna, Secretary
of State John
Kerry announced an agreement to
arm the internationally
recognized government in the
fight against
ISIS, also called Da'esh:
JOHN KERRY, U.S. Secretary of
State: The international
community will support the
Presidency Council
as it seeks exemption from the
U.N. arms embargo
to acquire those weapons and
bullets need
to fight Da'esh and other
terrorist groups.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But it won't be
easy. The U.S.
commander in Africa, General
David Rodriguez,
said yesterday it's hard to tell
which of
many armed groups have aligned
with the U.N.-supported
regime and which have not.
And we take a closer look at
those groups
and what the United States is
doing in Libya.
I'm joined now by Frederic
Wehrey of the Middle
East Program at the Carnegie
Endowment for
International Peace. He was a
military attache
to the U.S. Embassy in Tripoli
during the
George W. Bush administration,
and he visits
the country regularly.
Fred Wehrey, welcome back to the
program.
FREDERIC WEHREY, Carnegie
Endowment for International
Peace: Great to be here.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Remind us again
how Libya got
to this state, two warring
governments the
same time, multiple fighting
groups.
FREDERIC WEHREY: Well, ever
since the fall
of Gadhafi, there has been a
governance vacuum.
I mean, the country has split
into civil war
since 2014, two governments, two
sets of militias.
There is this new U.N. unity
government in
Tripoli that is still very weak,
but the eastern
faction doesn't recognize it. So
you have
got this vacuum. And that is a
ripe condition
for the Islamic State to insert
itself, as
they have in the town of Sirte.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, how strong is
ISIS, the
Islamic State, in Libya right
now?
FREDERIC WEHREY: The estimates
are about 3,000
to 6,000 fighters, bolstered by
foreign volunteers
from abroad. And they control
about 120 miles,
strip of coastline in the
center.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And how big a
threat does that
represent, given everything else
going on
in Libya?
FREDERIC WEHREY: It's
destabilizing to the
country's growth. It's also a
threat to Europe
and especially neighboring
states. We have
seen the Islamic State in Libya
plot attacks
against neighboring Tunisia.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And so, well,
let's back off
a little bit here and go back to
the role
of the United States. You just
mentioned NATO.
What does this mean? The U.S.
was out of Libya.
Then it was in, out. Where is
the U.S. right
now in Libya?
FREDERIC WEHREY: Well, the U.S.
is really
behind this new unity government
in Tripoli.
And they are obviously focused
on the Islamic
State threat.
But I think, more broadly, the
U.S. wants
to ensure that this government
succeeds, that
we don't repeat the mistakes
that we made
after the fall of Gadhafi. But,
of course,
the first priority is protecting
this government
and then helping it fight the
Islamic State.
And I think that's going to be
done through
some training, through
assistance, through
the lifting of the arms embargo,
as we heard.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But we also -- we
heard Secretary
Kerry say the U.S. is going to
be arming the
right government. But we also
heard the general
say it's not clear which group
is which, on
which side. How confusing is it?
FREDERIC WEHREY: Well, this is
-- it is very
confusing. This is the problem
we face in
all of these states where we're
fighting the
Islamic State. Who do you
partner with?
In the case of Libya, there is
no unified
government, there is no unified
chain of command,
there is no unified army. So,
you have got
to pick among these militias.
And it is a
very dangerous game, because you
don't know
who you are dealing with. Those
militias may
turn against you. They may turn
against one
another.
So, a great risk is that, by
arming them,
we could actually fuel the civil
war. So,
I think the general is very
right in proceeding
quite carefully.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How do you do
that? How does
the United States do that?
FREDERIC WEHREY: Well, there's
been reports
now of U.S. special operations
on the ground.
And what they are trying to do
is assess these
militias, their capacity, their
will, who
are they aligned with, before
they begin training
and assisting them.
But you have got to vet them for
human rights
violations. You have got to
recruit the right
ones. But, more importantly, you
have got
to make sure that they are under
the control
of a democratic government.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What do you think
should be
done, Fred Wehrey? Is it your
sense that this
is a formula that is going to
move in the
right direction?
FREDERIC WEHREY: I think the
U.S. has learned
a great deal from the mistakes
they made.
And I think they're proceeding
quite cautiously.
I think the right approach is to
really support
the legitimacy of this new
government. This
has to be a Libyan-led fight.
One of the things that really
amazed me when
I was in Libya was the amount of
sort of societal
resilience in Libya against the
Islamic State.
This was a foreign entity.
People don't want
it. The Libyans want to move
forward with
their government, with their
economy. And
so the U.S. has to harness that
momentum.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now, that's what
I was trying
to get at, as you know, because
we see ISIS
a factor in so many countries in
the region.
How do you tell the difference
between countries
where ISIS can overwhelm what is
on the ground
there, and where the forces
against it can
be stronger?
FREDERIC WEHREY: Yes, I mean, I
think we shouldn't
be overly alarmist about the
Islamic State
in Libya. I mean, they are sort
of boxed in
the central region. They can
still do a lot
of damage. But it's not to the
extent that
they are in Iraq, say, or Syria.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Bottom line, Fred
Wehrey, what
is at stake here for the United
States?
FREDERIC WEHREY: Well, I think
what is at
stake is the success of the sort
of toppling
of the Gadhafi government, I
mean, the security
of important allies in the
region, the security
of Europe. It's all wrapped up
together. So,
there is a lot at stake.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And Europe is
very much a part
of this. We haven't -- I haven't
asked you
about that, but that is very
much a...
(CROSSTALK)
FREDERIC WEHREY: Right. They
are, absolutely.
I mean, they are directly
affected by it.
There are reports of...
JUDY WOODRUFF: Because of
refugees?
FREDERIC WEHREY: Well, because
of refugees,
then also the potential plotting
of terrorist
attacks on Libyan soil against
Europe.
So, the French are reportedly on
the ground
with their special operations.
So are the
British. The Italians have
really committed
to helping this government, to
help train
that new Libyan military.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, it is a
complicated story,
but it's an important one for us
to follow.
Fred Wehrey, thank you very
much.
FREDERIC WEHREY: Thanks for
having me. Thank
you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Appreciate it.
Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour": the
Senate races
most affected by who's at the
top of the ticket;
a region in recovery, the
repercussions of
Mount St. Helens 36 years later;
and the lesser-known
side of Mark Twain, a stand-up
comedian.
But, first: medical care for
U.S. military
veterans, who two years -- we
remember, two
years ago, the Department of
Veteran Affairs
was overtaken by news reports of
poor care
for the people it's supposed to
serve.
Wait times to see doctors in
some places stretched
for months, and some VA staff
covered it up.
A number of reforms followed,
but now those
very reforms are in the
spotlight.
Hari Sreenivasan has the story.
BARACK OBAMA, President of the
United States:
A few minutes ago, Secretary
Shinseki offered
me his own resignation. With
considerable
regret, I accepted.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The
resignation of VA secretary
Eric Shinseki, secretary of
veterans affairs
and a decorated former chief of
staff, was
one of the most visible signs of
a crisis
that gripped the VA in 2014.
It started when Dr. Sam Foote at
the Phoenix
branch of the VA blew the
whistle on the incredibly
long waiting times for veterans
to see doctors
at his facility. Dr. Foote told
reporters,
including Gwen Ifill, that the
hospital's
director manipulated the data to
make the
waits seem much shorter.
DR. SAM FOOTE, Former Director,
Phoenix VA
Health Care System: We were
doing pretty well
until about 2010, and then the
demand just
ramped up. And rather than own
up to the problem,
the VA decided to cover it up,
because there's
no incentive for Washington to
get good numbers.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The VA
inspector general
found that Phoenix-area veterans
seeking care
had to wait an average of 115
days, almost
four months, for a first
appointment. And
1,700 veterans were kept off any
official
waiting list, and were at risk
of being lost
or forgotten.
Other investigations found this
type of problem
existed at many VA hospitals
throughout the
United States. The president and
Congress
vowed to fix the problem. One of
the reforms
authorized veterans to go to
doctors in private
practice if they couldn't get
timely appointments
at the VA.
But, according to recent
reports, the wait
times with the new system are
just as long
as they were before the reforms
were implemented.
And with me now to tell us about
this new
system, but plagued by old
problems, is Quil
Lawrence. He covers veteran
issues at NPR.
So, Quil, this was supposed to
be the fix.
Why is the fix broken?
QUIL LAWRENCE, National Public
Radio: Well,
it goes back to that moment of
scandal. There
was a sense of urgency in
Congress. And some
political rivals, Jeff Miller,
Republican
of Florida, and Bernie Sanders
of Vermont,
who is now much better known,
from opposite
ends of the spectrum came
together with this
plan to get all of these
veterans, this backlog
who were waiting for care, to
see private
doctors.
It was supposed to be a simple
plan. With
a card, they could go and use --
it seemed
at first that they would just be
able to go
into a private clinic and
present this card
and get care.
But what was given to the VA was
a law to
set up a whole new network to
get care for
anyone who had been waiting 30
days or was
40 miles away from a VA clinic.
And Congress
gave the VA just 90 days to set
this up. They
tried to -- they first thought
they might
be able to do it themselves,
decided they
needed to go outside to get some
private contractors
to set up the system more
quickly.
And only two of the 57 companies
they approached
to try and do this were willing
to give it
a shot. The result has been
really just an
extra layer of bureaucracy that
a lot of veterans
tell me makes them wait even
more than they
were waiting before or just as
much. Wait
times haven't gone down.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So, give me
some examples.
You and other public media
reporters around
the country have been talking to
some of these
people impacted by this. What
happens to them
and what is their process like?
QUIL LAWRENCE: Sure.
Yes, NPR is cooperating with
member stations
around the country. We have been
looking into
this for several months. I went
down to Pennsylvania
and talked to Bishop Small. He's
a Navy veteran
who has some terrible chronic
pain issues
in his legs.
He had been trying to get
physical therapy
for awhile. When are you in this
much pain,
it can sometimes cause
depression. He hasn't
been able to find work. And he
thought the
Choice Program would be perfect
for him. He
had been told that it was going
to take him
more than 30 days to get an
appointment at
his local VA.
And after calling the
third-party companies,
calling and calling and calling,
the first
place they sent him to informed
him they were
no longer participating in the
Choice Program.
This is one of the problems they
have had.
They can't seem to set up a
network. And the
network participants are getting
paid so slowly
that some of them drop out. They
just don't
want to participate in the Vets
Choice Program
anymore.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So, the
doctors aren't getting
paid, and perhaps that is a
reflection on
how quickly they are calling
these folks back.
QUIL LAWRENCE: Right.
Yes, we spoke to another veteran
in Montana,
Tony Lapinski. He's an Air Force
veteran.
And he was also just waiting
around. He had
a growth in his spine. He didn't
know what
it was. He thought it might be
nothing, thought
it could be the sort of thing a
doctor would
tell him later, well, this is
cancer. If you
had come to us sooner, we could
have done
something.
When he finally was able to see
a specialist,
he found out that the VA wasn't
paying these
people on time. And this has
caused another
knock-on problem with this
program, is that
some veterans, when their
providers don't
get paid by the VA, these
providers try and
bill the veterans.
And hundreds of vets have had
their credit
ratings slashed because the VA
isn't paying
the doctors who gave them care.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right, so
what happens
now? Clearly, trying to set up
an entire health
care network in 90 days, we
should maybe learn
from that. But what are members
of Congress
trying to do? Are there any new
reform efforts
to try to fix the fix?
QUIL LAWRENCE: Yes, there are
efforts under
way to consolidate all the VA's
many programs
for care outside the VA system.
Those are happening now. There
had been a
goal to get them done by
Memorial Day. I'm
now hearing that is unlikely.
But there is
also a lot of resentment in
Congress among
people who drafted this that the
VA hasn't
moved quickly enough on it, that
it's now
a year-and-a-half in, and it is
still not
really delivering on what it
promised to be.
HARI SREENIVASAN: What about the
veterans
themselves? It seems that
getting care, after
what they have been through, and
the delay
after delay after delay, maybe
contributes
to even more problems of
depression or perhaps
worse health care outcomes
because they couldn't
see someone soon enough.
QUIL LAWRENCE: Sure.
And I should say I have spoken
to some vets
who use this program and had no
problem with
it. But we have also just heard
loads of complications.
We talked to a veteran in San
Diego, a Navy
veteran named Amanda Wirtz. And
she said she
was in so much pain from
complications related
to a tumor this January, that
she was near
suicidal.
She tried to get an appointment
through Veterans
Choice, and the best they could
do was give
her an appointment two months
out. We found
that some veterans are actually
trying the
Choice Program, and then it
takes so long
that thousands and thousands of
them are returning
to the VA and just saying, well,
the appointment
I would get here would be
faster.
Overall, wait times at the VA
are worse than
they were when this program
started. They
say that's because of a huge
influx of demand.
But the assessments, outside
assessments of
this program are that it just
hasn't moved
the needle.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
Quil Lawrence
of NPR, thanks so much.
QUIL LAWRENCE: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Of the three
remaining candidates
for president, only Democrat
Bernie Sanders
was on the campaign trail today,
this the
day after two Democratic
primaries.
In Kentucky, an official winner
has still
not been called, but Hillary
Clinton holds
a razor-thin lead over Sanders.
The Vermont
senator did win in Oregon, but
he remains
the underdog for the party's
presidential
nomination.
The drawn-out primary battle is
sparking tensions
between Sanders himself and
party leaders,
an issue he tackled last night
during a stop
outside Los Angeles.
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS (VT-I),
Presidential Candidate:
The Democratic Party is going to
have to make
a very, very profound and
important decision.
It can do the right thing, and
open its doors,
and welcome into the party
people who are
prepared to fight for real
economic and social
change.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS: I say to
the leadership
of the Democratic Party, open
the doors. Let
the people in.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Meanwhile,
presumptive Republican
nominee Donald Trump, who easily
won Oregon's
GOP primary, held a highly
publicized meeting
today with former Secretary of
State Henry
Kissinger, that on top of the
names that his
campaign unveiled today of
potential Supreme
Court nominees in a potential
Trump presidency.
He also discussed what's behind
his sharp
tone that he often takes on the
trail in an
interview last night with FOX's
Megyn Kelly.
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
I have been saying during this
whole campaign
that I'm a counterpuncher. You
understand
that. I'm responding.
Now, I then respond times maybe
10. I don't
know. I mean, I respond pretty
strongly. But
in just about all cases, I have
been responding
to what they did to me. So, it's
not a one-way
street.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And while the
contest for president
gets most of the attention, it
could also
have a ripple effect down the
ballot. There
are 34 U.S. Senate seats up for
grabs this
election cycle, and, of those,
seven are considered
now a toss-up.
These include the open contests
in Nevada
and Florida, where Harry Reid
and Marco Rubio
have announced they're not
seeking reelection.
To discuss all this, we're
joined by Stuart
Rothenberg, founding editor and
publisher
of The Rothenberg & Gonzales
Political Report.
And David Wasserman. He's the
House editor
for The Cook Political Report.
And we welcome both of you to
the program.
STUART ROTHENBERG, Editor and
Publisher, The
Rothenberg & Gonzales Political
Report: Thanks,
Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Stu, let me
start with
you.
Remind us why it matters who has
a majority
in the Congress. We spend so
much time on
the presidential race.
STUART ROTHENBERG: Right. We
have spent so
much time covering the race and
talking about
the race.
But when you get down to it,
after the election
is over, the president is going
to have to
work with the House and the
Senate if they're
going to deal with any
fundamental issues.
And they have had a hard time on
big issues
like tax reform, immigration and
the like
because the Congress and the
president haven't
worked well.
So, knowing what is going on in
Senate races
and the House, who is getting
elected, I think
it tells us something about what
is going
to happen after the November
elections in
the next Congress.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, let's talk
about both
the House and the Senate and
start with the
Senate. But, Stu, I'm going to
focus on that
with you.
We listed, what, 34 seats are
up.
STUART ROTHENBERG: Right.
JUDY WOODRUFF: This year, seven
considered
toss-ups. Is there some rhyme or
reason to
those that are most vulnerable?
Where are
they? Who are they?
STUART ROTHENBERG: Well, most of
these -- most
of these seats are Republican
seats.
Remember, 24 of the 34 seats are
Republican
seats. These are Republican
seats, Republicans
who were elected six years ago.
That makes
them the class of 2010, if you
remember that
election, Judy. And I know you
do. That was
the first Obama midterm. Voters
were angry,
frustrated. Many Republicans
thought the president
had gone too far too fast. And
they wanted
to send a message, send a
message to Barack
Obama by electing Republicans to
the Senate.
And they did that in many swing
states and
even one Democratic state,
Illinois, where
Mark Kirk won in a surprising
election just
because of the contest.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, now they are
coming back.
STUART ROTHENBERG: And now
they're up, in
Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, New
Hampshire, Ohio.
These are all swing states. And
given the
polarization of the country and
the polarization
in these states, it's not
surprising. When
you get swing states, you get
competitive
elections.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Dave
Wasserman, give us
a big picture of the House of
Representatives.
You have got 435 seats in the
House. How many
of those are considered
vulnerable, up for
grabs?
DAVID WASSERMAN, The Cook
Political Report:
Well, today, we only consider 36
districts
to be competitive. And really
Democrats need
30 to get a majority. Right now,
Republicans
have a 247-to-188-seat
advantage. That is
the largest majority they have
had since 1928,
since Herbert Hoover was
elected.
And the question is whether
Democrats can
really tie Republican incumbents
and candidates
to Donald Trump. And that is
easier said than
done. Last fall, we were talking
about both
party leaders suggesting major
seats in jeopardy
for Republicans if Trump were
the nominee.
Now both parties are taking a
more cautious
approach, because, after all,
Trump, he doesn't
have a coherent ideology.
He doesn't have a voting record.
A lot of
Democrats are saying now that
they might have
had an easier time running
against Cruz, because
at least they have that playbook
written.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, in other
words, it's not
as clear that he is the
automatic detriment
for some of these Republicans;
is that what
you are saying?
DAVID WASSERMAN: That's true.
Well, and I think Democrats will
pick up seats.
They could pick up somewhere
between 10 and
15 seats if the elections were
held, let's
say, next Tuesday. Those next 15
to 20 seats
get really hard for Democrats to
pick up,
because not only have filing
deadlines passed
in a majority of districts, so
Democrats didn't
have the opportunity to convince
candidates
to get into some of these races
against Republicans.
But also Republicans have a huge
advantage
in terms of having drawn the
lines in 2010.
So there really aren't a vast
number of targets.
If there are any targets for
Democrats, it's
districts with high Latino
shares, where you
could see a spike in turnout
against Trump,
or districts with high levels of
well-educated
voters, where Trump could
perform unusually
poorly for a Republican.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And let's pick
up...
(CROSSTALK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Stu, yes, go
ahead.
STUART ROTHENBERG: I believe
there are 26
districts where there are a
Republican congressman
who just was carried by Barack
Obama.
There are five, on the other
hand, five Democrats
sitting in Romney districts. So
the Republicans
have much greater risk. There
are more Republicans
sitting in what ostensibly are
swing Democratic
districts, but not enough so the
Democrats
have an easy chance of picking
up 30 seats.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, back to the
Senate for
a moment, Stu, is there a
pattern here? We
know that each member is running
on his or
her -- or each senator running
on his or her
own record.
STUART ROTHENBERG: Yes. Well,
they are going
to try to run on their own
record.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But how much of
it is there
a Trump effect are you seeing?
STUART ROTHENBERG: Well, I
think, since so
many of these are swing states
-- Illinois
is a heavily Democratic state.
Mark Kirk got
elected because of unusual
circumstances,
so he is a little different.
But Wisconsin, Pennsylvania,
Florida, New
Hampshire, and Ohio are all
classified as
presidential swing states. And
they have in
most cases Republican
incumbents. Florida
is an open seat.
But the question is, can the
Republican incumbents
here run their own races, or are
they going
to be defined by Donald Trump?
And if you
are Kelly Ayotte in New
Hampshire or Rob Portman
in Ohio, your problem is, every
morning that
you get up, a reporter is going
to shove a
microphone in your face and ask
you, what
do you think about what Donald
Trump said
yesterday?
JUDY WOODRUFF: For House
members, Dave Wasserman,
it is a little bit different,
isn't it? They
are not as high-profile,
obviously, on a statewide
basis. It's more in their
district, but they
can get swept up in this as
well.
DAVID WASSERMAN: That's true.
And it may make
it even more difficult for them,
because they
have even less time to
communicate with voters
and separate themselves from the
top of the
ticket in an environment where
the presidential
race is getting all the
attention and it is
the main event.
And so, for example, in New
Hampshire, in
the Senate race with Kelly
Ayotte, she said
that she will support the
nominee of the Republican
Party, but she won't endorse.
That is kind
of a move of jujitsu that is
difficult for
a lot of voters in New Hampshire
to understand.
And a lot of Republicans in the
House are
dealing with the same kind of
conundrum.
JUDY WOODRUFF: There were some
-- I think
a number of people were
scratching their heads
over what is the difference
between support
and endorse.
STUART ROTHENBERG: Right.
JUDY WOODRUFF: I want to ask you
both, though,
about a couple of developments
today.
Stu, the -- Bernie Sanders
really getting
into what seems like a difficult
disagreement
with the Democratic National
Committee over
how soon he should pull back,
get out.
STUART ROTHENBERG: Yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: He is saying
every voter needs
to vote. Is this something
that...
(CROSSTALK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: ... have a
consequence?
STUART ROTHENBERG: Sure.
As the Democratic race
continues, Bernie Sanders
seems to be ratcheting up the
rhetoric. And
to the extent that he does that,
it risks
some Democratic core groups
turning out in
November, since he is, frankly,
unlikely to
be the nominee.
And what is one of his biggest
groups?; 18-to-29-year-olds,
young voters. Are they going to
turn out for
Hillary Clinton? And if they
don't, if they
don't turn out for her, they are
not going
to be able to vote for these
Democratic candidates
in swing states.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, Dave
Wasserman, the other
story we reported is Donald
Trump announcing
his potential Supreme Court
nominees, potentially,
if he is elected president.
I don't think we have ever seen
anything like
this. Is this the kind of thing
that could
have legs as a story, as an
impact on voters?
DAVID WASSERMAN: This seems to
be the year
of gimmicks. Right?
Ted Cruz announcing his vice
president before
wrapping up the nomination,
Donald Trump announcing
his Supreme Court picks before
even overtaking
or coming close to Hillary
Clinton in some
national polls.
I think most voters, when they
go to the polls
in November, are going to be
more concerned
about the temperament, the
readiness of the
candidates, who will bring about
the best
kind of change that they want in
November
or the most change, rather than
particular
people that they want to see on
the Supreme
Court.
Most people understand that
Donald Trump is
going to nominate a
conservative, Hillary
Clinton is going to nominate a
liberal justice.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, gentlemen,
it is great
to you have both.
Dave Wasserman, Stu Rothenberg,
thank you
very much.
STUART ROTHENBERG: Thanks, Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Mount St. Helens
in Washington
state is one of the most
well-monitored volcanoes
on the planet, and with good
reason. It's
still active.
And more than three decades to
the day after
it launched a stunning and
destructive display
of lava and ash, it continues to
transform
a region and its ecology. Even
now, scientists
are still learning about the
aftermath, and
how some life is emerging from
the ashes.
Science correspondent Miles
O'Brien has the
story, part of our new weekly
series about
exploring the Leading Edge of
science.
MILES O'BRIEN: Thirty-six years
after its
spectacular, deadly eruption,
Mount St. Helens
still rumbles and bears scars
from that earth-shattering
day.
But hike down the slopes, away
from that jagged
crater just a little, and you
will see Mother
Nature hard at work. And there's
a good chance
you will bump into a team of
scientists led
by John Bishop. He is an
evolutionary biologist
at Washington State
University-Vancouver.
JOHN BISHOP, Evolutionary
Biologist, Washington
State University-Vancouver: The
goal of our
research is to understand how
plant and animal
communities reform after a
catastrophic disturbance.
MILES O'BRIEN: Bishop is one of
a select group
of researchers studying this
rebound from
a volcanic eruption. Back in
1980, Mount St.
Helens had given scientists all
kinds of clues
that a big disturbance was
brewing.
Two months before it blew, the
volcano was
venting huge amounts of steam
and there was
a series of earthquakes. Even
with all those
ominous signs, the eruption was
larger than
anyone predicted. It happened at
8:32 on the
morning of May 18, 1980. An
earthquake caused
the north face of the mountain
to collapse.
JOHN BISHOP: After that, it
uncorked an explosion
that was directed horizontally,
and leveled
the forest to 13 miles out from
the volcano.
MILES O'BRIEN: The eruption
column of volcanic
ash and gas rose 80,000 feet,
while a tsunami
of 1,800-degree gas and rock
raced down the
valley at 450 miles an hour, a
so-called pyroclastic
flow.
JOHN BISHOP: Anything biological
that was
remaining after the landslide
would've been
completely vaporized. It was
just a barren
landscape, gray and
pumice-colored.
MILES O'BRIEN: It killed every
living thing
in a 230-square-mile area. What
was left was
akin to a moonscape; 57 people
died. Some
remains were never recovered.
Bishop and his team have had a
front-row seat
as nature got busy bringing this
place back
to life. They wanted to know
where it begins
and how it takes root. Here, it
started with
these purple flowers. Alpine
lupine were the
first plants to return. For many
years, they
were pretty much the only game
in town. But
as they went through their life
cycles over
several seasons, they created
soil from the
volcanic ash.
And that made it possible for
woody plants,
like the Sitka willow, to find a
home. They
are how a forest gets started,
but it hasn't
been easy for them.
JOHN BISHOP: One of the things
we have realized
about these willows is that
they're not getting
big. That's important, because
they create
habitat for birds and mammals.
We have learned
that these landscapes are
characterized by
extreme instability in the
populations of
the plants and animals that
colonize them.
MILES O'BRIEN: In a recovering
ecosystem like
this one, where just a few
species have managed
to regain a toehold, even
seemingly insignificant
pests can play an outsized role
in how the
landscape bounces back. These
weevils are
an invasive species with a
particular taste
for the Sitka willow.
JOHN BISHOP: Any stem larger
than about one
centimeter is usually destroyed
by this weevil,
and the effect of it is to keep
these plants
small, not let them form the
architecture
that's needed for bird and
mammal habitat.
MILES O'BRIEN: But Bishop says
it's important
to remember we are still early
on in what
will be a very long game. He
says the plants
and insects will battle it out
over time,
and eventually the ecosystem
will become more
diverse, more stable, and this
will be a forest
again.
JOHN BISHOP: When I'm out there
working on
the pumice plain, you know, one
moment, I
will look around, and I will be
stunned by
the amount of vegetation and the
number of
birds that are present. But
then, the next
moment, I step back and I think,
there is
hardly anything here.
We're centuries away from
replacing the old-growth
forest that was there.
MILES O'BRIEN: Mount St. Helens
is the perfect
place to test an important
question in ecology.
Life does go on, but how? John
Bishop will
keep looking for the answer
here, unless Mount
St. Helens awakens and reboots
the landscape
once again.
Miles O'Brien, the "PBS
NewsHour."
JUDY WOODRUFF: Finally tonight:
"Hunger is
the handmaid of genius." That's
Mark Twain.
In this latest edition to the
"NewsHour" Bookshelf,
Jeffrey Brown explores the long,
complicated
tale of Twain's own life, and
how one of America's
greatest writers was also a
pioneering stand-up
comic.
JEFFREY BROWN: In 1894, at age
59, Mark Twain
was the highest-paid writer in
the land, a
national celebrity, author of
"The Adventures
of Tom Sawyer," "Huckleberry
Finn," "The Prince
and the Pauper," and a slew of
other books
that are still required reading
more than
100 years after his death.
But he was also nearly broke,
after several
investments and business
projects went bust.
A new book captures what
happened next, "Chasing
the Last Laugh: Mark Twain's
Raucous and Redemptive
Round-the-World Comedy Tour." It
tells of
Twain's travels and performances
across the
American West, to Australia and
New Zealand,
India and South Africa.
I joined author Richard Zacks
recently at
one of Mark Twain's favorite
Washington, D.C.,
haunts, the historic Willard
Hotel and its
Round Robin Bar.
So, we know Mark Twain had a lot
of talent,
but what probably many of us --
and I didn't
know -- was one of his greatest
talents was
losing money.
RICHARD ZACKS, Author, "Chasing
the Last Laugh:
Mark Twain's Raucous and
Redemptive Round-the-World
Comedy Tour": Extraordinary, a
genius at it.
He lost money with the Paige
typesetter. He
lost money setting up his own
publishing company.
And he lost enough money to go
deeply in debt
at the point in his career when
he thought
he was just going to retire as
America's greatest
writer.
JEFFREY BROWN: Already very
famous, a lot
-- so much behind him, ready to
glide out.
RICHARD ZACKS: He was greedy. He
wanted to
get paid higher royalties. And
he was convinced
that, if he owned the publishing
house, he
could pay himself 90 percent
royalties.
The trouble was that he so
mismanaged the
publishing house, that there was
no money
left to pay him any royalties.
JEFFREY BROWN: So this was a
point in his
life where he really didn't want
to be performing
anymore. Right? That was behind
him.
RICHARD ZACKS: Right. He wanted
to kind of
a literary giant. And he said --
not wanting
to go on stage, he said, once an
audience
has seen you stand on your head,
they expect
you to remain in that position.
And he felt
it was humiliating.
JEFFREY BROWN: He went out big
time, right,
the biggest ever.
RICHARD ZACKS: Right. Right.
It's the first time a stand-up
comic has ever
done a round-the-world tour. And
he didn't
know how he would be received,
because he
was a little on the tail end of
his career.
So, here he is going out there,
and he is
going to Australia, New Zealand,
well, India,
and his performing style is so
dangerous.
He would put a hand like this,
stand there
dressed in an evening suit, and
talk in a
very low-key -- very, very
slowly.
JEFFREY BROWN: Yes. So this is
not stand-up
comedy, the way we think of it,
joke after
joke after joke. This is
storytelling. So
what made it work?
RICHARD ZACKS: The delivery is
almost unique.
I think he was a
once-in-a-millennium humorist.
He wrote about the boatman on --
the Arab
boatman charging so much to
cross the Sea
of Galilee, that they understood
why Jesus
learned to walk on water.
(LAUGHTER)
JEFFREY BROWN: OK, that's a
little quick -- that's
a good joke. Right?
RICHARD ZACKS: Yes. He didn't do
that much
of that.
JEFFREY BROWN: Right. But he
would spin out
these stories for a long time.
Right?
RICHARD ZACKS: Excellent point.
He did seven-to-15-minute
stories. He did
90 minutes total. He had three
full performances
memorized, three 90 minutes. And
I'm telling
you, audiences were gasping for
air.
JEFFREY BROWN: And he's building
and building
and building.
(CROSSTALK)
RICHARD ZACKS: He's building and
building,
and there's drama, and you don't
see it coming.
Right. How are you going to make
that work?
(CROSSTALK)
JEFFREY BROWN: Yes. Yes.
All right, so, Australia, New
Zealand, India,
South Africa, give me one place
or example
that grabbed you in your
research that you
loved.
RICHARD ZACKS: It's just so easy
to pick.
India. He adored the glamour,
the exoticness.
And he rode elephants in India.
And he got
what I would consider the
greatest perk in
the history of celebrities
perks. They set
aside 35 miles of the Darjeeling
Himalayan
Railway that he could use as
personal roller
coaster. I mean, who gets that?
JEFFREY BROWN: This is very
steep, through
the mountains, yes.
(CROSSTALK)
RICHARD ZACKS: Yes, it's
7,000-foot elevation.
They had zigzag -- four places
were so steep,
they had to reverse the train
and zigzag it.
And Twain goes down with his
family in a handcar,
open canvas seats, no seat belts
we're told
about, and the only thing that
can stop them
is a hand brake. And some of the
drops are
over 1,000 feet. He said it was
rousing, tingling
pleasure, the best day of the
entire trip.
JEFFREY BROWN: You know, one of
the pleasures
of this story is that, while
it's begun out
of poverty in a sense, almost,
or trying to
fight it off, he lives a really
high life,
right, I mean, only the best
hotels, the cruise
ships, the train trip.
RICHARD ZACKS: He is such a
contradiction,
which is I think is why he is so
unbelievably
funny.
He wanted to be a man of the
people, and he
wanted to live the most
aristocratic life.
He wanted to be the funniest
man, and he wanted
to be a literary giant. He
travels around
the world to pay off debts, but
because his
wife was an heiress, he thought
she should
stay at the absolute best hotel
in every city.
And he burned up like maybe a
quarter of his
potential profits on hotel and
first-class
steamer tickets.
JEFFREY BROWN: And he wanted to
be, in the
end, a great writer, right, not
a kind of
clown act or anything like that.
RICHARD ZACKS: Exactly.
JEFFREY BROWN: Did he feel like
he got there?
RICHARD ZACKS: I think he had
mixed feelings
about whether he got there,
because he is
always referred to as the great
humorist.
It really irritated him that he
wasn't accepted.
And the interesting thing is
that he chose
as his best book to his dying
day "Joan of
Arc," "Joan of Arc," "Personal
Recollections."
JEFFREY BROWN: A book that
nobody would even
-- most of would not remember
that he wrote.
RICHARD ZACKS: Right. He
sometimes said "Huckleberry
Finn" to certain audiences, but
he more often
in the final years said "Joan of
Arc."
And Livy had no doubt. His wife
was convinced
"Joan of Arc" was his greatest
book.
JEFFREY BROWN: You had to spend
several years
with him. What came out about
his personality
or his life? What did you come
to like most?
RICHARD ZACKS: What I came to
like most was
the unbelievable humor, the
ability to rephrase
things. "Few of us can stand
prosperity, another
man's, I mean."
I mean, Twain lived at those
fringes. And
he had like an inner battle
between his inner
riverboat gambler and his inner
Joan of Arc.
And it was like -- it was
fascinating.
JEFFREY BROWN: The end of this
trip is where
that famous line that we
remember, right,
my -- "The reports of my death
are greatly
exaggerated."
RICHARD ZACKS: I love this
story.
So, Twain is living in seclusion
in London,
and he is writing his book. And
The New York
Herald reports he is dying in
poverty. And
the rival paper, The New York
Journal, says
-- sends a telegram and says, if
Twain dying
in London in poverty, send 500
words. If Twain
has died in poverty, send 1,000.
And so the reporter naively
hands the telegraph
to Twain, to Twain's servant,
who carries
it upstairs, and Twain scribbles
a note. And
he says: "Reports of my illness
grew out of
my cousin's illness. Reports of
my death was
an exaggeration."
It has changed to, "The reports
of my death
are greatly exaggerated."
And one more point. He was more
irritated
by the report of the poverty
than he was of
the death. The death, he can
handle. Everyone
dies, but that he had died in
poverty, he
was furious.
JEFFREY BROWN: All right, the
book is "Chasing
the Last Laugh."
Richard Zacks, thanks so much.
RICHARD ZACKS: Thank you. It was
great.
JUDY WOODRUFF: On the "NewsHour"
online right
now: When you turn 65, you
become eligible
for Medicare. But if you're
still working
and are covered by your
employer's health
insurance, what would you
choose? On our Making
Sense page, our Medicare expert
offers some
advice.
All that and more is on our Web
site, PBS.org/NewsHour.
Tune in later tonight on PBS:
the debut of
a new series. "Genius By Stephen
Hawking"
takes a cast of everyday
volunteers on a journey
to tackle some of humanity's
most enduring
problems.
And on PBS' "Charlie Rose,"
Angus King, the
independent senator from Maine,
weighs in
on the presidential race.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
On Thursday, want to spend your
retirement
changing the world? Making Sense
of Harvard's
University's fellowship for
senior citizens.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
Join us online and again right
here tomorrow
evening. For all of us at the
"PBS NewsHour,"
thank you, and good night.